A first attempt at documenting: How to install JeamLand
-------------------------------------------------------

I am really a little too close to JeamLand to write this document, but I'll
give it a go and then amend it in response to any comments I receive!
Comments to: JeamLand@twikki.demon.co.uk please!


1. Extracting the JeamLand directory tree.

   (Assuming that you haven't already done this
    if not, how are you reading this file ? ;-).

   JeamLand is distributed as a gzipped tar file and needs to be uncompressed
   and untarred. If you have gnu tar, then all you need to type is:

	tar -zxvf jeamland.1.2.0.tar.gz

   where 1.2.0 is the version number of this distribution.

   If you do not have gnu tar, then the required command is:

	gzip -dc jeamland.1.2.0.tar.gz | tar -xf -

   If you do not have gzip (?!) you can try downloading the distribution as
   an unzipped tar by ftp'ing it down again omitting the .gz extension
   (should work with wu-ftpd servers)

   If you do not have tar, then you're stuck unless you can persuade another
   program, such as cpio, to extract the files for you.

   You should now have a directory called something like jeamland.1.2.0
   (depending on the version you have.)


2. You now need to configure your distribution.
   First, change into the jeamland.1.2.0 directory then either:

     i)  Run the Configure program and answer the questions.
   or
     ii) Edit the config.h file with your favourite editor.

   After running the Configure program, you may want to browse the config.h
   file to see if there is anything else you wish to change; the Configure
   program only changes the bare minimum but having said that, the
   distribution config.h file should be ok for most setups.


3. Type 'make' which will show a list of operating systems under which
   JeamLand has been compiled. If your system is listed, all well and good
   simple type 'make <system name>' and go and make a cup of coffee.
   If not, then use 'make cc' or 'make gcc' depending on which compiler you
   have - it does no harm to try both.

   JeamLand should compile with no errors or warnings. In general, warnings
   can be safely ignored but I would appreciate being told of any which occur
   so that they may be fixed in the next release.

   If compilation does abort with an error, and you fix it, please tell me!
   if you can't fix it, feel free to contact me for help.


4. Now test the talker in single user mode. Just type:

	bin/jeamland -S

   If all goes well, you will be presented with a login prompt; log in as

	root

   You will be warned that root has no password, then asked to input one.
   In order for the talker to save the root user, you must also set an
   email address using the 'email' command.

   At this point, you may want to create an admin user for yourself using
   the 'mkuser' command.

   When you've finished playing, shut the talker down by typing

	shutdown now


5. Start the talker either with the angel program:

	bin/angel

   or in background mode:

	bin/jeamland -B

   You should now be able to log in by telnetting to the port you set it up
   to use.

   The angel is a small program which boots the talker and then goes to sleep
   until the talker either shuts down or crashes at which point it will
   log some information and restart the talker. If the talker should crash
   twice in quick succession, the angel will give up.

   If you are running the talker under the angel, then trying to shut it down
   will just result in another copy being booted. You need to issue the
   "killpp" command from inside the talker to shutdown the angel.


6. The messages shown at and just after login are located in the lib/etc
   directory. You may want to look at all of the files in there - some of them
   are system generated (eg. mailspool, mastersave.o) but the others are
   editable by the administrator (eg. sudoers, motd, news)

   The lib/ directory is the talker's database.


7. If you are short of disk space, you can remove all unecessary files by
   typing:

	make aclean

8. Please now read the README file.


Enjoy!
						Andy Fiddaman, June 1996

