
		JeamLand intermud systems, a brief overview
		-------------------------------------------

JeamLand supports three different intermud systems which I will call cdudp,
inetd and imud3. These systems were originally designed to link together
muds, and not talkers and so the word 'host' is used to cover both of these.

Cdudp
-----

This is the first intermud system I knew about. It was implemented on muds
based on the CD gamedriver and was then adopted by MudOS muds and enhanced
a little.

However, it suffers from the major drawback that it uses UDP packets to
communicate with other hosts. UDP (User Datagram Protocol) packets
get to their destination if they get there. In other words, there is no
guarantee that a packet will get to where you sent it. In general, this
causes few problems with general requests, such as 'who' and 'finger' because
if a response is not received by a user on the originating host, then
that user will just send another request. For the global intermud channels,
however, this means that you often just see bits of any conversation.

For 'tell' packets, the MudOS team added 'affirmation' packets to let the
sender know that his tell message had been received. However, if the message
was received but the affirmation was lost, then the sender would still not
know that the message had arrived!


Inetd
-----

Inetd is a new intermud protocol designed by Mark Lewis (Nostradamus) for
Amylaar muds.

While inetd still uses UDP packets, it is far more reliable due to its
design. Every packet sent over inetd intermud needs a reply packet. If the
reply is not received within a certain period, the packet is retransmitted.
If the reply is not received after three transmissions, then the sender is
informed that the request timed out, and the host is marked as being
'down'.

To address the problem of the reply packets being lost, the target
host retains a list of the packet ids it has received from each host,
and if it receives a duplicate packet, it returns a 'reply' packet
but takes no further action. This means that a target user will not receive
two duplicate 'tell' messages just because the reply packet to the first
one went astray.

Another advantage that inetd has over cdudp is the maximum packet size. To
be safe, a host should not transmit a UDP packet of more than 1024
characters. Inetd works around this limit by splitting packets up into
chunks before sending them; the receiving host then reassembles the
packet before parsing it.

The inetd protocol is such that arbitrary fields may be added to the packets
sent between hosts. Some additions to the protocol have been made
by third parties; these include 'mail' and 'news'.

Unfortunately, although channel messages require a reply packet to be sent,
they are not subject to the timeout retransmission rules which apply to all
other packets. I suspect this is something Mark was intending to address
when he implemented the channel packet replies in his last release. To avoid
duplicate channel messages, he must wait until all hosts are running the
latest intermud before adding this feature.

NOTA BENE: JeamLand channels (interjl, interjladmin) are an exception! These
           channels _do_ use packet timeout and retransmission as of JL
           version 1.1.26


Intermud III
------------

Intermud III is a very recent development. It is completely different to both
of the above systems in that it uses TCP for its communications.

Every host on the intermud-III network connects and remains connected to an
intermud-III router.
This router then takes any packets sent by the host, and directs them to the
target. This system may be slower, but any packet sent out by a host is
guaranteed to reach its destination.

Disadvantages of this protocol are that it is not possible to send free text
'who' listings etc.

For more information on Intermud-III see:
	http://www.imaginary.com/



JeamLand
--------

As mentioned, JeamLand supports all three of the above protocols. When asked
to deliver a packet to another host then JeamLand will choose the best
network to route the packet over.

First, If the target is a JeamLand host, then inetd is used.
Otherwise, if the target supports Imud3, then that is used.
Otherwise, if the target supports Inetd, then that is used.
Otherwise, if the target supports Cdudp, then that is used.
Otherwise, the packet can not be delivered.

You can force a packet to use a specific protocol by prefixing the target
host name with a ^ character followed by a character indicating the protocol.
For example:
	who @orchard			Uses inetd as Orchard is a JL host.
	who @^3orchard			Uses imud3.
	who @^iorchard			Uses inetd.
	who @^corchard			Uses cdudp.

To list the hosts JeamLand knows about on a particular network:

	jlhosts				Other JeamLand hosts on inetd.
	hosts				Hosts on inetd.
	chosts				Hosts on cdudp.
	3hosts				Hosts on imud3.

JeamLand supports channels on all three networks, these are as follows:

CDUDP:	CREATOR, HUNGARY
Inetd:	Intermud, interadmin, intertest, d-chat, intercode
Imud3:	imud_gossip, imud_code, ... [ channels can be added at will ]

